all right we're gonna try to do this as
a two-hander rather than a monologue I
always felt I was wanted to do videos
talking other people by the way talking
with other people like even if it's
mostly me talking about the topic I
really think there's a kind of unwanted
intensity to me staring straight into
that camera and saying give me your soul
well you know what I mean like
especially so many topics I really think
it's better if I'm talking to my
girlfriend and you know I'm checking
like you understand what I'm saying you
she can jump in anytime but maybe she
has done in the same topic I think it's
a lot more human to see that kind of
interaction maybe especially when you're
talking about politically important
issues or philosophically dense and
difficult issues I know I got one piece
of fan mail for the last video we did
talking about being in politics said
vegan politics on the thumbnail a guy
wrote in but he said what a contrast it
was to these other channels there aren't
that many where it's a couple but the
couple work from a script and they sit
there and stare into the camera so it's
not even like two people having a
conversation right it's two people
sitting there in tandem in parallel
staring into the camera and I'm a
totally artificial way of talking yeah
what do you think about that I thought
that's a good question that reminds me
you know but yeah yeah that's a good
point and now here's the next line on my
script you know so I just say I dig that
but I mean some people also write in a
complaint like I'm preventing you from
talking because you could say anything
you want to say you could just type
anyway some of these topics like sums
the topic is like my life for my it's me
complaining about my university
education obviously obviously not gonna
interests a so look one of the words I
see thrown around basically a lot of
what goes on in vegan politics right now
people kind of try to bully each other
into into activism you know like you
ought to feel bad about yourself because
you're not as much as an activist it's
like the John sidecars video oh that's a
good I didn't think of that yeah no
that's are you going to the protest on
Sunday right
yeah oh no I'd rather watch Game of
Thrones right yeah yeah yes and no
that's a relatively polite indirect for
you but I think a lot of the political
discourse you know if people trying to
inflate their own egos their own sense
of self-importance that's understandable
but also people trying to kind of insult
and diminish each other like you're not
a real activist or you're not doing all
you can for the movement and so on
anyway some of that's inevitable like if
you work in the fashion industry the
same thing goes on to some stem like
you're not a real fashion designer
you're not really committed to the
fashion the way I am you know that stuff
goes on you know
so in theater in fashion okay so what's
some of that but I mean guys we got to
keep it under control and in this game
of people pulling each other I see the
word Dogma being kicked around in a
peculiar way now I want to kick this off
by saying let's really think about the
difference between the word dogma and
the word axiom I think in general when
we want to be flattering we say that
things are axiomatic and when we want to
insult them we say that they are
dogmatic my dictionary definition of
axiom is a statement or proposition that
is regarded as being established
accepted or self-evidently true so you
know I mean what is the difference
between a Dogma or an axiom you know
what's the difference between you know a
lot of these things work that way you
can look some oh you want to look up
Dogma but contrast
yeah go on cool see see she can
interrupt anytime she wants so Dogma by
contrast is defined as a principle or
set of principles laid down by an
authority as incontrovertibly truth
right but I mean fundamentally we're
talking about dogmas or axioms we're
basically talking about one belief that
is required by another set of
assumptions you know if we do not
believe a then how can we believe me or
do B C and D something else follows from
it um you know John McDougall the diet
guru he puts forward the idea that is I
think dogmatic or if you want to flatter
it you can say axiomatic he puts forward
the idea that there is such a thing as a
human diet in the same that would that
we can talk about your time status you
said it in different contexts right
Hippos yeah so if you got a hippo
well no no but it's more still exists
it's species-specific right so his point
is if you're keeping a hippo in
captivity you have to know what is a
hippo diet you have that the appropriate
food we have eponymous if you're keeping
some kind of monkey in captivity
scientifically we can study what is a
human diet in the same way that we can
study and establish other species diet
and then as you know his conclusion is
that a human appropriate human diet the
human diet is starch based so it's vegan
but specifically you know he has a lot
of others was everybody know that is you
know an axiomatic mode of reasoning that
is dogmatic I'm comfortable with it but
you don't actually discredit what he's
saying by calling it a dogma or by
saying that this is this is dogmatic
reasoning unnatural vegan and many
vegans who were influenced by Peter
Singer have an approach Peter singers
form of so-called utilitarianism they
have a Dogma thinking about veganism in
terms of suffering you know and I don't
I had a supporter on patreon asked me
about that I was for a major on asking
me an exasperated way how is it possible
that you support veganism but you don't
you're not trying to minimize the amount
of animal suffering that I don't think
in this way with suffering being the
crucial concept and Hendra but I had a
couple messages back for them but the
last message hit him look you need to
really accept that it's not the case
like I secretly agree with you and I'm
just confused about it I don't wanna
measure them self I really profoundly
disagree with you now suffering I'm not
saying it's a good concept of no
importance at all to me before they can
see different people to find suffering
in different ways but you know to me
suffering is much less important than
the idea of dignity you know I don't
think I'm trying to achieve zero animal
suffering on the planet was actually
what some vegans would say they want to
reduce or eliminate animal suffering in
you know this comes up whenever we talk
about well the animals you talk about
releasing animals at the well and people
say well but they'll die and I sit back
guess what the mortality rate for
animals in the wild is 100 percent yeah
it's not that some of them will die all
of them will die but they'll get to have
a life in the wild before they don't
example releasing rabbits in the world
what do you think the mortality rate is
for animals in captivity
I'll give you a hint
it's a hundred percent but they live
their whole life in a cage so yeah if
you're talking about rabbits or these
rabbits can be happier in the wild or in
your home in a hut in a cage my answer
is not about happiness is not about
suffering it's about dignity and a lot
of time that's with human dignity also
so when we were talking about eating
roadkill or something
we talked about eating eggs from
backyard hands or something I think it's
actually beneath my dignity to eat
chicken eggs you regardless even if it's
the happiest chicken in the world it's a
free-range chicken and meat so listen I
asked you this question about my human
dignity any that and again not if I'm
abandoned on a desert island or in some
extreme survival situation so for me
dignity is a really important concept
suffering not so much I have a different
approach but it is dogmatic reasoning
the approach of a natural vegan
I would say the approach of everyone who
imitates Peter Singer consciously or
unconsciously of saying this is the
value of suffering this is how we can
quantify it Peter Singer has quite a
number of other dogmas or axioms a lot
of he has a lot of axiomatic reasoning
about so-called cognitivism that he
thinks he can define what intelligence
is and isn't and then he defines
suffering as roid its consciousness etc
so so this is dogmatic this is axiomatic
and people like a natural vegan are
really wrong to say that they can kind
of divide the world of vegan politics
into good and evil we're good is
pragmatic and evil is dogmatic or evil
is actually matter you know some things
we can reason through in an axiomatic
way and some we can't you know so just
ok we were watching vegan gains vegan
gains had a video about a guy who really
sincerely does not understand the theory
of gravity and does not understand how
the world can be a sphere he's into Flat
Earth reasoning someone and it's
pathetic and it's very easy to insult
this guy as an idiot because he believes
in a flat earth and so on but on the
other hand I can see that the education
system has kind of failed to move past
dogma and axiom you know we can we can
teach how gravity works as a simple
dogma as a simple axiom and maybe some
people are gonna get it and some people
aren't you know so anyway just say but
axiomatic reasoning is useful in some
ways and not in others so look I've put
this out there my own dog
have mentioned this in one other YouTube
video if I were to actually state my
engagement with veganism as a Dogma it
is the following I even wrote this down
before making this video I normally
write nothing down my own Dogma is if
more and more people refuse to buy
animal products the world would be a
better place okay if thousands of more
people refuse to buy animal products if
millions of more people refuse about
whatever the number is and we can have
increasing numbers and more more and
that Dogma is phrased in that way
because it's not specific to health it's
not specific to ecology it's not
specific to some utilitarian notion of
total animal suffering total suffering
or pleasure versus pain or anything else
like that right I ask you is this
inherently flawed because its dogmatic I
can say to you sincerely I believe in
this dogmatically you know this is an
axiom where this is a dog might believe
in I think you know you can find fault
with it or you can say it fails to
address the same thing that dr. John
McDougall --zz Dogma addresses or fails
to address the same things that
utilitarian do remove it but a lot one
of the first videos on my channel I
talked about the meaning of the word
ideology that ideology had become a bad
word that we're all supposed to pretend
we don't have any ology we don't know
what it is so look let's stop treating
ideologies as a dirty world let's admit
to ourselves that if we're serious about
politics we do deal with ideology with
questions a video a few questions of
ideals and idealism also it's related
but different committee ology I feel we
got to kind of move past this thing with
dogma and axioms and we can just
acknowledge in an open and honest way
dogmatism is an aspect of veganism some
elements of veganism are dogmatic
doesn't mean they have to be ridiculous
doesn't mean we're gonna disintegrate
into some kind of oppressive you know
Catholic monarchy from the 14th century
it really doesn't and I think the more
honest with ourselves we can be about
the role of dogma in our own beliefs
then in a meaningful sense the more
pragmatic we will be in dealing with
politics that's that's a wrap and it's
not that I didn't let her get a word in
edgewise I promise you I had not read
what you had written down
was totally new to me so it was
interesting she's a viewer and watching
your channel so yeah I like to digest
joy what'd you say that's right so
respond I mean there was a time when you
watch me on YouTube from afar when yet
by YouTube and now you know you just
watch it a much closer like live
streaming face to face